Tam Lin

Anaïs Mitchell

Key: Bm
Capo: 2

Intro
A C G | F Em |
Am C G | F Em |
Janet sits in her lonely room sewing a silken seam
looking out on Carterhaugh among the roses green
And Janet sits in her lonely bower sewing a silken thread
and longed to be in Carterhaugh among the roses red
She's let the seam fall at her heel the needle to her toe
And she has gone to Carterhaugh as fast as she can go
She hadn't pulled a rose, a rose a rose but only one
when then appeared him, young Tam Lin says "Lady, let alone"
"What makes you pull the rose, the rose? what makes you break the tree?
What makes you come to Carterhaugh without the leave of me?"
"But Carterhaugh is not your own roses there are many
I'll come and go all as I please and not ask leave of any"
And he has took her by the hand, took her by the sleeve
And he has laid this lady down among the roses green
And he has took her by the arm took her by the hem
And he has laid this lady down among the roses red
There's four and twenty ladies fair sewing at the silk
And Janet goes among them all her face as pale as milk
And four and twenty gentlemen playing at the chess
And Janet goes among them all as green as any glass
Then up and spoke her father and spoke him meek and mild
"Oh alas, my daughter, I fear you go with child
"And is it to a man of might or to a man of means?
For who among my gentlemen shall give the babe his name?"
"Oh father, if I go with child this much to you I'll tell
There's none among your gentlemen that I would treat so well
"Oh father if I go with child I must bear the blame
There's none among your gentlemen shall give the babe his name."
She's let the seam fall at her heel the needle to her toe
She has gone to Carterhaugh as fast as she can go
She is down among the weeds down among the thorns
And then appeared Tam Lin again says "Lady, pull no more.
"What makes you pull the poison rose?  What makes you break the tree?
What makes you harm the little babe that I have got with thee?"
"Oh I will pull the rose, Tam Lin and I will break the tree
But I'll not bear the little babe that you have got with me
"If he were to a gentleman and not a wild shade,
I'd rock him all the winter's night and all the summer's day"
"Then take me back into your arm if you my love would win
And hold me tight and fear me not I'll be your gentleman
"But first I'll turn change, all in your arms into a wild wolf
But hold me tight and fear me not I am your own true love
And then I'll change, all in your arms into a wild bear
But hold me tight and fear me not I am your husband dear
And then I'll change, all in your arms into a lion bold
But hold me tight and fear me not and you will love your child"
At first he changed, all in her arms into a wild wolf
She held him tight and feared him not he was her own true love
And then he changed, all in her arms into a wild bear
She held him tight and feared him not he was her husband dear
And then he changed, all in her arms into a lion bold
She held him tight and feared him not the father of her child
And then he changed, all in her arms into a naked man
She's wrapped him in her coat so warm and she has brought him home